# Tutorial 3 Python Visualization
Welcome to the third tutorial in this series! In this section we're going to be covering the basics of Python visualization with a focus on Seaborns (and by extension Matplotlib). I highly recommend revisiting this section once you progress a little farther in your learning and seeing what all you can cook up with regards to plots. Visualization is one of the most powerful, if not the most powerful, tools you have to aid yourself in understanding your data and representing it to others. Good visualizations can be key to solid scientific discoveries so don't slack on this!

So, why seaborn over other popular plotting libraries in Python like Bokeh, Plotly, or even the grandaddy of them all Matplotlib? That's a great question. Seaborn is built on top of Matplotlib so you get some of that flexibility but seaborn barrows some ideas that are quite common in the R Lattice and ggplot2 worlds and makes it very easy to condition your plots. For example you can make a scatterplot conditioned on a particular aspect of your data and seaborn will split the data out into two seperate scatterplots making the relationships very easy to visualize with multiple dimensions. Used well, this is an amazingly powerful tool.

## Note
If you are an R user and really enjoy using lattice or ggplot and you want to use those in your Python code, you most certainly can! Check out the r2py package if or when you get to that but don't consider it a priority right now. I personally have no experience in this realm. While we're on the topic, you can work in the other direction too! Reticulate is a package maintained by the RStudio team to run Python scripts from within an R session.